Azureworkloadidentity docs (#3208)
astronomer/docs: learn/connections/azure-workload-identity.md

3---
title: "Create an Azure Workload Identity connection in Airflow"
id: azure-workload-identity

> sidebar_label: "Azure Workload Identity"

Reviewer: This needs to be added to sidebarLearn.js so it shows up in the menu

Author: Done

sidebar_custom_props: { icon: 'img/integrations/azure.png' }
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

An [Azure Workload Identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/workload-id/workload-identities-overview) is an identity you assign to a software workload (such as an application, service, script, or container) to authenticate and access other services and resources. This identity can be granted access to multiple Azure services by being assigned Azure resource groups, which is particularly advantageous for users who need to access different Azure services in a single workflow. This is because it eliminates the previous need to create different connections for different Azure services, instead allowing all Azure services to utilize the new generic **Azure** connection type. 

This guide explains how to set up an Azure Workload Identity connection using the **Azure** connection type. Astronomer recommends using this connection type because it utilizes the new Entra ID Workload identities system, which means you can connect with any Azure service using a single connection.

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: We're listing the Astro CLI and locally running project here for prereqs, but the main content is for adding the connection in Astro. I would suggest we list an Astro deployment as the prereq, and then add a note that you can also use workload identity when running OSS Airflow, but your steps might differ slightly, and link to the docs: https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-microsoft-azure/stable/connections/azure.html

- The [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/overview).
- A locally running [Astro project](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/get-started-cli).
- An Azure Entra ID Managed Identity that you want your Astro workloads in this deployment to run as. For information on how to create one, please refer to the [Azure documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/managed-identities-azure-resources/how-manage-user-assigned-managed-identities?pivots=identity-mi-methods-azp)

## Get connection details

> In order to create a workload identity for your deployment that leverages your Entra ID managed identity, you'll need to execute an Azure CLI command that links your Airflow deployment and managed identity. To simplify this process, we have created a command generator, located in a pop up menu under the details tab of your deployment screen. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to create a workload identity for your deployment that leverages your Entra ID managed identity, you'll need to execute an Azure CLI command that links your Airflow deployment and managed identity. To simplify this process, Astro has command generator located in a pop up menu under the **Details** tab of your Deployment overview. 
```

> :::Note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note

```

> If you plan to use the same workload identity for multiple deployments, you'll need to run this command for each individual deployment. However, all deployments will use the same credentials for their connection, allowing you to share the same connection to multiple deployments at the same time via the [Astro Connection Management System](https://www.astronomer.io/solutions/connection-management/). Currently because of limits Azure has set on the number of resources allowed to leverage the same Workload Identity, the same connection can be shared across 5 deployments last. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you plan to use the same workload identity for multiple Deployments, you'll need to run this command for each individual Deployment. However, all deployments will use the same credentials for their connection, allowing you to share the same connection to multiple deployments at the same time via the [Astro Connection Management System](https://www.astronomer.io/solutions/connection-management/). Currently because of limits Azure has set on the number of resources allowed to leverage the same Workload Identity, the same connection can only be shared across 5 deployments. 
```
Let's move this text below the screenshot, and pull the first two sentences out of the note box (leave the Azure limit of 5 in the note).

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion

:::
```

> ![details-screen](/img/examples/connection-azure-workload-identity-1.png)

Reviewer: Can you put a box around the workload identity section in the screenshot? It's hard to find in the who thing. You can also crop the screenshot so anything below the 'Advanced' box or to the right of workload identity isn't included, which will make it easier to read.

![command_creation_popup](/img/examples/connection-azure-workload-identity-2.png)

> The two credentials it requires, Managed Identity Name and Resource Group, are both available from the Managed Identity resource overview screen, as shown in the screenshot below: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The two required credentials, Managed Identity Name and Resource Group, are both available from the Azure Managed Identity resource overview screen: 
```

![identity-details-screen](/img/examples/connection-azure-workload-identity-3.png)

> After you've entered those credentials into the pop up menu, copy the code block from under `Run in terminal:` and either open the Azure CLI directly from the web portal, or from a local terminal window that has the Azure CLI installed. Then, paste the code block and run it to create your Workload Identity. After the Workload Identity has been created and authenticated to the deployments Scheduler, Triggerer, and Worker, you'll be returned a json package that contains all the necessary details for adding the connection to Airflow. Specifically, you'll need to copy the `clientId` and `tenantId` fields. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you've entered those credentials into the pop up menu, copy the code block from under `Run in terminal:` and either open the Azure CLI directly from the web portal, or from a local terminal window that has the Azure CLI installed. Then, paste the code block and run it to create your Workload Identity. After the Workload Identity has been created and authenticated to the Deployment, you'll be returned a json package that contains all the necessary details for adding the connection to Airflow. Specifically, you'll need to copy the `clientId` and `tenantId` fields. 
```

```json
{
  "clientId": "clientid",
  "id": "/subscriptions/**subscription-id**/resourcegroups/DemoGroup/providers/Microsoft.ManagedIdentity/userAssignedIdentities/astrodemoid",
  "location": "eastus",
  "name": "astrodemoid",
  "principalId": "PrincipalID",
  "resourceGroup": "DemoGroup",
  "systemData": null,
  "tags": {},
  "tenantId": "TenantID",
  "type": "Microsoft.ManagedIdentity/userAssignedIdentities"
}

```

> ## Adding Connection via the Astro UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create your connection using the Astro environment manager
```

To create your connection in Astro, open up the Environment tab and use the `+ connection` button to create a new connection. 

> ![create_connectionmenu](/img/examples/connection-azure-workload-identity-4.png)

Reviewer: Let's crop this screenshot so there's not as much blank space, and put boxes around the Environment tab on the left and the + connection button.

Then, select the Azure workload identity option from the grid menu, where you'll be presented with the following screen to enter the `clientId` and `tenantId` fields from before. If you need to specify a `subscriptionId` for a specific service, you can open up the more options drop down menu to do so. 

![example_conn](/img/examples/connection-azure-workload-identity-5.png)

> ## Adding Connection via the Airflow UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create your connection using the Airflow UI
```

> ## Adding Connection via the Airflow UI

Reviewer: We should note here that you need to have the Azure package installed in your environment - similar to this doc https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/connections/azure-data-factory#create-your-connection

> ## Adding Connection via the Airflow UI

Reviewer: Are the form names here still just clientID and tenantID? The Airflow docs seem to indicate that you need to set `managed_identity_client_id` and `workload_identity_tenant_id`, which makes me wonder if these need to go in `extras` if they're not specific fields? Or did you not use those at all when you set it up? https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-microsoft-azure/stable/connections/azure.html

Author: Nope didn't have to use those at all when I set them up, just the two given fields on the connection form.

> To create your connection in Airflow, open up the Connections menu and create a new connection, then select `Azure` as the connection type. Then, enter the `clientId` and `tenantId` fields from before. You can also specify a `subscriptionId` for a specific service if you need to do so. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are not running Airflow on Astro, or if you prefer to manage connections directly from Airflow, you can add the connection using the Airflow UI. 

In the Airflow UI, go to **Admin** > **Connections**. Click **+** to add a new connection, then select `Azure` as the connection type. Enter the `clientId` and `tenantId` fields you retrieved from [Get connection details](#get-connection-details). You can also specify a `subscriptionId` for a specific service if you need to do so. 
```

> To create your connection in Airflow, open up the Connections menu and create a new connection, then select `Azure` as the connection type. Then, enter the `clientId` and `tenantId` fields from before. You can also specify a `subscriptionId` for a specific service if you need to do so. 

Reviewer: Can we add a screenshot of the connection form in this section?

sidebar_custom_props: { icon: 'img/integrations/azure.png' }
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

An [Azure Workload Identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/workload-id/workload-identities-overview) is an identity you assign to a software workload (such as an application, service, script, or container) to authenticate and access other services and resources. This identity can be granted access to multiple Azure services by being assigned Azure resource groups, which is particularly advantageous for users who need to access different Azure services in a single workflow. In Airflow, this eliminates the need to create different connections to access different Azure services from your DAGs, instead allowing all Azure services to utilize the new generic **Azure** connection type. 

This guide explains how to set up an Azure Workload Identity connection using the **Azure** connection type. Astronomer recommends using this connection type because it utilizes the new Entra ID Workload identities system, which means you can connect with any Azure service using a single connection.

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: Should we add the Azure CLI here? Maybe with a note that you can also run Azure CLI commands through the Azure web portal?

- The [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/overview).
- A Hosted [Astro deployment](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/get-started-cli).
- An Azure Entra ID Managed Identity that you want your Astro workloads in this deployment to run as. For information on how to create one, please refer to the [Azure documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/managed-identities-azure-resources/how-manage-user-assigned-managed-identities?pivots=identity-mi-methods-azp)

:::note 

> You can also use the Azure workload identity connection option when running Open Source Airflow, however your steps might vary slightly. For further documentation, please refer to the [office Airflow documenation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-microsoft-azure/stable/connections/azure.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use the Azure Workload Identity connection option when running OSS Airflow, however your steps might vary slightly. For further documentation, please refer to the [Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-microsoft-azure/stable/connections/azure.html)
```

:::

## Get connection details

> In order to create a workload identity for your deployment that leverages your Entra ID managed identity, you'll need to execute an Azure CLI command that links your Airflow deployment and managed identity. To simplify this process, Astro has command generator located in a pop up menu under the **Details** tab of your Deployment overview. If you plan to use the same workload identity for multiple deployments, you'll need to run this command for each individual deployment. However, all deployments will use the same credentials for their connection, allowing you to share the same connection to multiple deployments at the same time via the [Astro Connection Management System](https://www.astronomer.io/solutions/connection-management/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to create a workload identity for your deployment that leverages your Entra ID managed identity, you'll need to execute an Azure CLI command that links your Airflow deployment and managed identity. To simplify this process, Astro has a command generator located in a pop up menu under the **Details** tab of your Deployment overview.
```

> ![details-screen](/img/examples/connection-azure-workload-identity-1.png)

Reviewer: Cropping looks good, but still need to add a box around the Workload Identity section here

> ![command_creation_popup](/img/examples/connection-azure-workload-identity-2.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![command_creation_popup](/img/examples/connection-azure-workload-identity-2.png)

If you plan to use the same workload identity for multiple deployments, you'll need to run this command for each individual deployment. However, all deployments will use the same credentials for their connection, allowing you to share the same connection to multiple deployments at the same time via the [Astro Connection Management System](https://www.astronomer.io/solutions/connection-management/).
```

:::note

 Currently because of limits Azure has set on the number of resources allowed to leverage the same Workload Identity, the same connection can only be shared across 5 deployments. 

:::

> The two required credentials, Managed Identity Name and Resource Group, are both available from the Azure Managed Identity resource overview screen: 

Reviewer: Reading through this again, I think it would make sense to start the section with this part, since the user will need to get these credentials before they go to Astro. You can keep the first intro sentence (about running commands in the Azure CLI) - then have this description of getting credentials - then go into the Astro UI and what to do with them.

```json
{
  "clientId": "clientid",
  "id": "/subscriptions/**subscription-id**/resourcegroups/DemoGroup/providers/Microsoft.ManagedIdentity/userAssignedIdentities/astrodemoid",
  "location": "eastus",
  "name": "astrodemoid",
  "principalId": "PrincipalID",
  "resourceGroup": "DemoGroup",
  "systemData": null,
  "tags": {},
  "tenantId": "TenantID",
  "type": "Microsoft.ManagedIdentity/userAssignedIdentities"
}

```

## Create your connection using the Astro environment manager

To create your connection in Astro, open up the Environment tab and use the `+ connection` button to create a new connection. 

![create_connectionmenu](/img/examples/connection-azure-workload-identity-4.png)

> Then, select the Azure workload identity option from the grid menu, where you'll be presented with the following screen to enter the `clientId` and `tenantId` fields from before. If you need to specify a `subscriptionId` for a specific service, you can open up the more options drop down menu to do so. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, select the Azure workload identity option from the grid menu and enter your `clientId` and `tenantId`. If you need to specify a `subscriptionId` for a specific service, you can open up the **More options** drop down menu to do so. 
```

![example_conn](/img/examples/connection-azure-workload-identity-5.png)

## Create your connection using the Airflow UI

If you are not running Airflow on Astro, or if you prefer to manage connections directly from Airflow, you can add the connection using the Airflow UI. 

> In the Airflow UI, go to **Admin** > **Connections**. Click **+** to add a new connection, then select `Azure` as the connection type. Enter the `clientId` and `tenantId` fields you retrieved from [Get connection details](#get-connection-details). You can also specify a `subscriptionId` for a specific service if you need to do so. 

Reviewer: Not sure if GH didn't record my original comment here, but can we add a screenshot of the connection field in the Airflow UI? We should also add a note about needing the Azure provider package installed. (and it probably makes sense to break this up into numbered steps like we do in the other connection guides).

---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

An [Azure Workload Identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/workload-id/workload-identities-overview) is an identity you assign to a software workload (such as an application, service, script, or container) to authenticate and access other services and resources. This identity can be granted access to multiple Azure services by being assigned Azure resource groups, which is particularly advantageous for users who need to access different Azure services in a single workflow. In Airflow, this eliminates the need to create different connections to access different Azure services from your DAGs, instead allowing all Azure services to utilize the new generic **Azure** connection type. 

This guide explains how to set up an Azure Workload Identity connection using the **Azure** connection type. Astronomer recommends using this connection type because it utilizes the new Entra ID Workload identities system, which means you can connect with any Azure service using a single connection.

## Prerequisites

- The [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/overview).

> - The [Azure CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/). You can also run Azure CLI commands through the Azure web portal as well! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The [Azure CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/) or access to the Azure web portal.
```

- A Hosted [Astro deployment](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/get-started-cli).

> - An Azure Entra ID Managed Identity that you want your Astro workloads in this deployment to run as. For information on how to create one, please refer to the [Azure documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/managed-identities-azure-resources/how-manage-user-assigned-managed-identities?pivots=identity-mi-methods-azp)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A Microsoft Entra [managed identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/managed-identities-azure-resources/how-manage-user-assigned-managed-identities?pivots=identity-mi-methods-azp).
```

> :::note 
> You can also use the Azure Workload Identity connection option when running OSS Airflow, however your steps might vary slightly. For further documentation, please refer to the [Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-microsoft-azure/stable/connections/azure.html)
> :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::info 
If you want to use Microsoft Entra Workload ID with a generic Apache Airflow project, your setup steps might vary. See [Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-microsoft-azure/stable/connections/azure.html).
:::
```

## Get connection details

> In order to create a workload identity for your deployment that leverages your Entra ID managed identity, you'll need to execute an Azure CLI command that links your Airflow deployment and managed identity.  The two required credentials to create this workload identity, Managed Identity Name and Resource Group, are both available from the Azure Managed Identity resource overview screen: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a workload identity for your Airflow environment, you first need to link your Airflow environment to your Entra ID managed identity.

1. In your Azure portal, open the **Managed Identities** menu.
2. Search for your managed identity, click **Properties**, then copy its **Name**, **Client ID**, **Tenant ID**, and **Resource group name**.
3. Run the following command to create a workload identity for your Airflow environment [INSERT COMMAND]
```

Reviewer 2: Because learn prioritizes OSS learners, I'd like to see a full set of steps that assumes you're _not_ using Astro, including a copyable command similar to what the environment manager shows. We only have partial steps for OSS users at the moment.

![identity-details-screen](/img/examples/connection-azure-workload-identity-3.png)

To simplify the process of using these credentials to create a workload identity, Astro has a command generator located in a pop up menu under the **Details** tab of your Deployment overview.

> ![details-screen](/img/examples/connection-azure-workload-identity-1.png)

Reviewer: Can you adjust the box so it doesn't include the CI/CD enforcement section?

> 
> To simplify the process of using these credentials to create a workload identity, Astro has a command generator located in a pop up menu under the **Details** tab of your Deployment overview.
> 
> 
> ![details-screen](/img/examples/connection-azure-workload-identity-1.png)
> ![command_creation_popup](/img/examples/connection-azure-workload-identity-2.png)
> 
> If you plan to use the same workload identity for multiple deployments, you'll need to run this command for each individual deployment. However, all deployments will use the same credentials for their connection, allowing you to share the same connection to multiple deployments at the same time via the [Astro Connection Management System](https://www.astronomer.io/solutions/connection-management/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're using Astro, follow the steps in [Authorize Deployments to Cloud resources](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/authorize-deployments-to-your-cloud?tab=azure#setup) to create a workload identity for your Deployment.
```

> :::note
> 
>  Currently because of limits Azure has set on the number of resources allowed to leverage the same Workload Identity, the same connection can only be shared across 5 deployments. 
> 
> :::
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Deleting this because this note is already included in the linked Astro setup.

After you've entered those credentials into the pop up menu, copy the code block from under `Run in terminal:` and either open the Azure CLI directly from the web portal, or from a local terminal window that has the Azure CLI installed. Then, paste the code block and run it to create your Workload Identity. After the Workload Identity has been created and authenticated to the Deployment, you'll be returned a json package that contains all the necessary details for adding the connection to Airflow. Specifically, you'll need to copy the `clientId` and `tenantId` fields. 

> ```json

Reviewer 2: Since we already have a documented setup for Astro, I linked out to that to simplify the setup steps

> After you've entered those credentials into the pop up menu, copy the code block from under `Run in terminal:` and either open the Azure CLI directly from the web portal, or from a local terminal window that has the Azure CLI installed. Then, paste the code block and run it to create your Workload Identity. After the Workload Identity has been created and authenticated to the Deployment, you'll be returned a json package that contains all the necessary details for adding the connection to Airflow. Specifically, you'll need to copy the `clientId` and `tenantId` fields. 
> 
> ```json
> {
>   "clientId": "clientid",
>   "id": "/subscriptions/**subscription-id**/resourcegroups/DemoGroup/providers/Microsoft.ManagedIdentity/userAssignedIdentities/astrodemoid",
>   "location": "eastus",
>   "name": "astrodemoid",
>   "principalId": "PrincipalID",
>   "resourceGroup": "DemoGroup",
>   "systemData": null,
>   "tags": {},
>   "tenantId": "TenantID",
>   "type": "Microsoft.ManagedIdentity/userAssignedIdentities"
> }
> 
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ## Create your connection using the Astro environment manager

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Create your connection

To create your connection in the Airflow UI:

1. In the Airflow UI, go to **Admin** > **Connections**.
2. Click **+** to add a new connection, then select **Azure** as the connection type.
3. Enter the `clientId` and `tenantId` fields you retrieved from [Get connection details](#get-connection-details) and enter them into the **Managed Identity Client ID** and **Workload Identity Tenant ID** fields respectively. You can also specify a **subscriptionId** for a specific service if required.
4. Click **Save**.
```

> To create your connection in Astro, open up the Environment tab and use the `+ connection` button to create a new connection. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create your connection in Astro, follow the steps to [create a new connection in the Astro Environment Manager](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/create-and-link-connections). Select the **Azure workload identity** connection type and enter your **Client ID** and **Tenant ID**. If you need to specify a **Subscription ID** for a specific service, you can open up the **More options** dropdown menu and add it there.
```

![create_connectionmenu](/img/examples/connection-azure-workload-identity-4.png)

> 
> Then, select the Azure workload identity option from the grid menu and enter your `clientId` and `tenantId`. If you need to specify a `subscriptionId` for a specific service, you can open up the **More options** drop down menu to do so. 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

![example_conn](/img/examples/connection-azure-workload-identity-5.png)

> ## Create your connection using the Airflow UI
> 
> If you are not running Airflow on Astro, or if you prefer to manage connections directly from Airflow, you can add the connection using the Airflow UI. 
> 
> ![example_airflow_conn](/img/examples/connection-azure-workload-identity-6.png)
> 
> 1. In the Airflow UI, go to **Admin** > **Connections**.
> 2. Click **+** to add a new connection, then select `Azure` as the connection type.
> 3. Enter the `clientId` and `tenantId` fields you retrieved from [Get connection details](#get-connection-details) and enter them into the `Managed Identity Client ID` and `Workload Identity Tenant ID` fields respectively. You can also specify a `subscriptionId` for a specific service if you need to do so. 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
